1.what is lamda expression?

Write code in lamda expressions.

2.Write lamda expression without parameter

3.How to maintain number of connections to db from spring boot application?

4.How to restrict to number of database connection to 10 ?

5. What is hikari cp?

6. Have you used multiple databases in same aplication?

   If yes how can you achieve this?

7. How to access diffrent instances of same database for diffrent environment for same spring boot application?

8. How to display  sql queries in application log?

9. If the primary column field is combination of column, then in JPA how to use it as @id field?

10. How to call storedprocedure or functions from Java?

11. Diffrent ways to pass data/parameter to Rest controller

12. Can we make Headers passed to rest endpoints required or optional?

13. What do you understand by Synchronous and asynchronous requests? Explain with use case.

14. Have you used Splunk? Any knowledge about splunk queries?

15. Explain left join? diffrent ways to achieve left join?

Packaging microservice with security certificates and deployment

JPA – Any challenges faced with complex queries and how did you resolved?

As part of JDBC to JPA migration, Can I use same JDBC query in JPA repository ?

How do we orchestrate among microservices? Architecture?

What are the database optimization techniques for fast data retrieval?

Can we apply indexes on 50 columns of table ? (table has 100 columns)

How will you call external API or rest service ?

How will you handle errors (HTTP Error :404) from external API ?

How will ensure your service more resilient?

How Spring helps on resilient services ?

How kafka/event driven helps resilient services(100% availability)?

SAGA pattern

Ques role in microservice

API Gateway

Kafka – Publish & Subscribe model

Kubernetes commands

Spring boot

How the resource created & deployed in Kubernetes/docker

How spring feature are using for microservice development?

What is complex microservice (Architecture) that you developed in your project

Java 1.8, Lambda expression, Streams (Code for sort & filter specific item from Array)

Rest Controller (Code asked)
 
asked about rest controllers/web 

docker container, 

server or serverless aws 

how to work with containers

load balancer

monolithics and microservice architecture

Threads and process

webstore

multithreading 

threads program, 

one spring program

Explain about recent challenges in Springboot and how you resolved

Latest version of MS SQL used - Any migrations you worked on ?

How good are you in SQL queries - Explain few examples on your experience

Any experience in Kubernetes ?

Different steps when developing a RestAPI

How to validate if a request is valid or not when developing RestAPI

Difference between @component and @service

In service class if we use @component will there be any impact ?

Advantage of using @service instead of @component

Have u worked on any New implementation of functionalities in Java 11

Where do you use streams

Any experince in Kafka ?

Kafka and Pubsub

Have you written any producer application and consumer application ?

How security is maintained in pubsub.

How do you manage Serialization and Deserialization

How do you guarantee the order of message

Any idea on Offset concept in Kafka ?

What are the 12 factor principles while developing Microservices

What is Domain driven design - Explain with an example

When converting from Monolithic to microservices - How do you design DBs in Microservice, whats the approach you take

Implemented any log monitoring tools ?

How do you monitor any recurring errors ?

Any experience in configuring Splunk for failure alerts ? How will you do it ?

Any NOSQL DBs you have worked ?

Advantage of NOSQL DBs over RDBMS.

When to use NO SQL Dbs and when to use RDBMS ?

How interservice communication happen in Microservices

How to do Exception handling and fallback

Circuit breaker

Configuration for all microservices

Explain Solid principles in Java

Angular exposure - How good are you in developing web based front end applications ?

In Angular, have you done any microservices type of design ?

Collaborated with Onshore resources, clients at Onshore ?
has context menu
 