

Java:
 
OOPS:

Polymorphism / Inheritance / Abstraction / Coupling
 
Abstract Class vs Interface
 
Collections:

List / Map / Set / HashTable
 
Working of hashMap
 
Threads:

How many ways we can create thread and which way is efficient and why?

Exceptions:

How to create custom exception?

try - catch - finally
 
Garbage collection
 
Java-8 concepts:

Functional Interface

Lambdas

Optional

Streams
 
 
what method used by filter, for each, collect, map in java 8 internally?

How to tune a java method if want response faster
 
 
Programming:
 
Create a linkedList perform add,retreive and delete operation on it.(without using Collection frameWork).
 
Find the first pair of two numbers in an unsorted array whose sum is equal to the given number.
 
int a[] = {1,3,4,5,7,4,6,8}

input = 8

ouput = {3,5}
 
Each character count  in given string with and without using streams api.

Create a linkedList perform add,retreive and delete operation on it.(without using Collection frameWork).

Write function or method to find out if an integer value k is present in sorted integer Array? No predefined methods should be used.
 
 
Spring / Spring boot:

what are the advantages of using springboot ?

What is difference between Controller and RestController?

If i have 4 service and Service A is calling B and so on and if transaction failed in between then how to handle transactions and rollback in microservices architecture?

how use performance tuning in your project ?

How to increase performance of an application?

what is circular dependency in spring?

what is differnce between controller and restcontroller?

what is difference between Request param and pathvariable?

What is Jpa and Hibernate ? Advantage of jpa over JDBC.

What is IOC ? explain the difference between spring IOC and dependency inversion.

Why we use spring transactions and how to use it?

Spring security authentication and authorization
 
Rest:

Annotation to used for both xml and json datatype in rest api?

what is Idempotent method in Rest API?
 
 
Microservices:

How to handle multiple database scenario in microservice architecture?

what is microservices and why we use it?

How to enhance perforance of your application using performance tuning in microservices architecture ?

Disadvantage of Microservices

how to trace any issues if any of your microservice fails and what tools we can use?
 
What are design patterns and how many types are there ?
 
SQL: 

How to optimize sql query ?

What are views used for?
 
DevOps / CI-CD:
 
What is kubernetes and useful command used in it.
 
what is KAFKA and why we use it?

What is kafka architecture and how kafka stream works?

How to configure kafka consumer and producer in springboot?
 
 
Angular:
 
what is Decorators in Angular ? - @input, @injectible -> 

what is differnce between Observable and Promise ? Promise - return in method (async and await)

What is components used in angular?

What is typescript in angular ?
 
 
Q1. What is Spring Boot and What Are Its Main Features? Spring Boot is essentially a framework for rapid application development built on top of the Spring Framework. ...

Q2. What Are the Differences Between Spring and Spring Boot? The Spring Framework provides multiple features that make the development of web applications easier. ...

Q3. How Can We Set up a Spring Boot Application With Maven? We can include Spring Boot in a Maven project just like we would any other library. ...

Q4. What is Spring Initializr? Spring Initializr is a convenient way to create a Spring Boot project. ...

Q5. What Spring Boot Starters Are Available out There? Each starter plays a role as a one-stop-shop for all the Spring technologies we need. ...

Q6. How to Disable a Specific Auto-Configuration? If we want to disable a specific auto-configuration, we can indicate it using the exclude attribute of the @EnableAutoConfiguration annotation. ...

Q7. How to Register a Custom Auto-Configuration? To register an auto-configuration class, we must have its fully-qualified name listed under the EnableAutoConfiguration key in the META-INF/spring.factories file: org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.EnableAutoConfiguration=com.baeldung.autoconfigure.CustomAutoConfiguration If we ...

Q8. How to Tell an Auto-Configuration to Back Away When a Bean Exists? ...

Q9. How to Deploy Spring Boot Web Applications as Jar and War Files? Traditionally, we package a web application as a WAR file, then deploy it into an external server. ...

Q10. How to Use Spring Boot for Command Line Applications? Just like any other Java program, a Spring Boot command line application must have a main method. ...

Q11. What Are Possible Sources of External Configuration? Spring Boot provides support for external configuration, allowing us to run the same application in various environments. ...

Q12. What Does it Mean that Spring Boot Supports Relaxed Binding? Relaxed binding in Spring Boot is applicable to the type-safe binding of configuration properties. ...

Q13. What is Spring Boot Devtools Used For? Spring Boot Developer Tools, or DevTools, is a set of tools making the development process easier. ...

Q14. How to Write Integration Tests? When running integration tests for a Spring application, we must have an ApplicationContext. ...

Q15. What Is Spring Boot Actuator Used For? Essentially, Actuator brings Spring Boot applications to life by enabling production-ready features. ...

Q16. Which Is a Better Way to Configure a Spring Boot Project Using Properties or YAML? ...

Q17. What Are the Basic Annotations that Spring Boot Offers? The primary annotations that Spring Boot offers reside in its org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure and its sub-packages. ...

Q18. How Can You Change the Default Port in Spring Boot? ...

Q19. Which Embedded Servers does Spring Boot Support, and How to Change the Default? As of date, Spring MVC supports Tomcat, Jetty, and Undertow. ...

Q20. Why Do We Need Spring Profiles?
 
1.	Packaging microservice with security certificates and deployment

2.	JPA – Any challenges faced with complex queries and how did you resolved?

3.	As part of JDBC to JPA migration, Can I use same JDBC query in JPA repository ?

4.	How do we orchestrate among microservices? Architecture?

5.	What are the database optimization techniques for fast data retrieval?

6.	Can we apply indexes on 50 columns of table ? (table has 100 columns)

7.	How will you call external API or rest service ?

8.	How will you handle errors (HTTP Error :404) from external API ?

9.	How will ensure your service more resilient?

10.	How Spring helps on resilient services ?

11.	How kafka/event driven helps resilient services(100% availability)?

12.	SAGA pattern

13.	Ques role in microservice

14.	API Gateway (oauth)

15.	Kafka – Publish & Subscribe model

16.	Kubernetes commands

17.	Spring boot

18.	How the resource created & deployed in Kubernetes/docker

19.	How spring feature are using for microservice development?

20.	What is complex microservice (Architecture) that you developed in your project

21.	Java 1.8, Lambda expression, Streams (Code for sort & filter specific item from Array)

22.	Rest Controller (Code asked)

what is post man how is it used.

write few git commands to push and pull.

difference between gradle and maven.

Design patterns

 